.\" Manual page for nvflux
.TH NVFLUX 1 "February 2026" "nvflux 1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
nvflux \- manage NVIDIA GPU clock profiles without sudo
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nvflux
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
nvflux is a small, setuid-root helper that lets unprivileged desktop users switch
NVIDIA GPU clock profiles without sudo. It provides a constrained interface to
nvidia-smi: only a fixed set of allowlisted commands are accepted; clock values
are always queried from the GPU rather than supplied by the user.
.PP
On application, nvflux waits for the driver to settle and reports the actual
clocks the driver applied (which may differ from what was requested due to boost
clock ceilings). A rich state file at
.I ~/.local/state/nvflux/state
is updated after each profile change.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B performance
Lock to the highest supported memory clock and near-peak graphics clock.
Temperature safety check: refused when GPU \[>=] 90\[de]C.
.TP
.B balanced
Lock to mid-range memory and graphics clocks.
Temperature safety check: refused when GPU \[>=] 90\[de]C.
.TP
.B powersave
Lock to the lowest supported memory clock and near-floor graphics clock.
Always permitted regardless of temperature.
.TP
.B auto
Select a profile automatically based on current GPU temperature:
\[<=] 60\[de]C \[->] performance, 61\-79\[de]C \[->] balanced, \[>=] 80\[de]C \[->] powersave.
.TP
.B reset
Remove all clock locks; the driver manages clocks automatically.
.TP
.B status
Show the last applied profile and clocks from the state file, alongside live
readings from the driver. Example output:
.nf
  \[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]
  Profile:  Power Save
  Applied:  2026-02-26T03:15:22
  Memory:   810 MHz
  Graphics: 487 MHz
  Temp:     58\[de]C
  \[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]\[u2500]
.fi
.TP
.B clock \fImem_mhz\fR \fIgfx_mhz\fR
Lock to specific MHz values.  The graphics value is clamped to the driver
ceiling (\fIclocks.max.gr\fR) if it exceeds the lockable range.
.TP
.B \-\-restore
Re-apply the last saved profile (reads the state file). Useful in autostart
scripts and systemd services.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.SH TEMPERATURE SAFETY
nvflux reads the GPU core temperature before applying a profile:
.RS 4
.IP "\[bu] 2"
\[>=] 80\[de]C: a warning is printed but the profile is still applied.
.IP "\[bu] 2"
\[>=] 90\[de]C: performance and balanced are refused. Use \fBpowersave\fR or \fBreset\fR instead.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Restore last saved profile on login (i3/Sway config):
.B exec --no-startup-id nvflux --restore
.TP
Switch to performance mode:
.B nvflux performance
.TP
Lock to custom clocks:
.B nvflux clock 7501 1920
.TP
Check current profile and live clocks:
.B nvflux status
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.local/state/nvflux/state
Per-user state file (key=value format). Created and updated by nvflux after
each profile change. Contains: mode, timestamp, memory_mhz, graphics_mhz, temp_c.
.TP
.B /usr/local/bin/nvflux
Installed setuid-root binary.
.SH NOTES
nvflux uses direct \fIexecv()\fR calls to invoke nvidia-smi; no shell is involved.
All nvidia-smi lock/reset output is silenced; nvflux prints its own clean summary.
Clock values are always queried from the GPU \[em] users cannot inject arbitrary values
except through the \fBclock\fR command, which validates and clamps the input.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nvidia-smi (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Habibi Med Wassim.
.SH LICENSE
MIT — see the LICENSE file distributed with this software.
